# Developing with ConfigurableCompany

_The guide assumes you already know the basics of programming, c# and the basic usage of visual studio._

[Creation](##Creating-a-category)  
[Parameters](##Parameters)  
[Usage](##Using-a-category)

## Creating a category

Categories are used to organize your configuration in a folder-like structure so the final user can easily navigate the menu. These are symbolic and do not change the behavior of the configurations at all.

To create a category is as simple as calling `LethalConfiguration.CreateCategory`. You can choose to provide an ID right from the start or later, however, all categories must contain an unique ID.

**IDs** must be lowercase, contain only letters, numbers, hypens ( **-** ) and underscores ( **\_** ). I'd recommend to make your IDs look something like `author_category-name` or `author_mod_category-name`.

Here is an example on how you can create a category:

```csharp
ConfigurationCategory category3 = LethalConfiguration.CreateCategory()
                .SetID("amrv_configurable-company_category-3")
                .SetName("Category 3")
                .SetPage(ConfigurationPage) // Optional
                .SetColorRGB(255, 0, 0) // Optional
                .HideIfEmpty(false) // Optional
                .Build(); // Optional
```

It's not necesary to call `Build()` if you are assigning the creation to a `ConfigurationCategory` as it will implicitly call the build method to create the category.

## Parameters

_This is a description on what does every parameter actually mean._

-   **ID**/`SetID(string)`: The unique ID of the category.
-   **Name**/`SetName(string)`: The name that will be displayed on the in-game menu.
-   **Color**/`SetColor(Color)`: (There are multiples methods to set the color. choose the prefered one based on your preferences) Sets the color of the category panel in the in-game menu. _**OPTIONAL**_
-   **HidesIfEmpty**/`HideIfEmpty(bool[true])`: Marks the category to not be displayed at all if there are no configurations inside this category. _**OPTIONAL**_
-   **Page**/`SetPage(ConfigurationPage)`: Makes this category go listed on the provided page. One is generated by default but I encourage you to create a page for your mod.

`Build()` Will create the category. It will not be created until the method is called (However as mentioned above, the method will called automatically if you assign the creation to a category).

Once the `Build()` is called, you will **not** be able to modify the category any further.

## Using a category

To use a defined category, just store the variable with the `ConfigurationCategory` and assign your configurations to it.
